Financial Management System
Description
The Financial Management System is a personal finance tracking application built with Python, SQLAlchemy, and SQLite. It helps users manage their financial accounts, transactions, and budgets. This system allows users to:

Create and manage multiple accounts (e.g., savings, checking).
Track transactions linked to specific accounts.
Set and manage budgets for each account.
View the balance and transactions of each account.
The project demonstrates database management using SQLAlchemy for Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) and Alembic for database migrations.

Features
Account Management: Create and manage different financial accounts, such as savings and checking accounts.
Transaction Management: Record and track transactions, including deposits, withdrawals, and transfers.
Budget Management: Create and manage budgets for each account to track spending.
Technologies Used
Python: The core programming language for the application.
SQLAlchemy: ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) tool for interacting with the SQLite database.
SQLite: Lightweight relational database for data storage.
Alembic: Database migration tool for tracking changes in the database schema.
unittest: Unit testing framework to ensure the integrity and functionality of the system.
Requirements
Python 3.x (tested with 3.8)
SQLAlchemy (for ORM)
Alembic (for migrations)
SQLite (for the database)
You can install the required dependencies using:

bash
Copy code
pip install -r requirements.txt
requirements.txt
makefile
Copy code
SQLAlchemy==2.0.36
Alembic==1.14.0
Database Models
The system uses the following models, defined using SQLAlchemy ORM:

1. Account Model
Stores information about a financial account:

account_id: Unique identifier for the account.
name: Name of the account (e.g., "Savings Account").
type: Type of account (e.g., "Personal", "Business").
description: Optional description of the account.
balance: The balance of the account.
2. Transaction Model
Stores transaction records linked to accounts:

transaction_id: Unique identifier for the transaction.
account_id: Foreign key linking to the Account model.
type: Type of transaction (e.g., "Deposit", "Withdrawal").
amount: Amount involved in the transaction.
description: Optional description of the transaction.
date: Date of the transaction.
budget_id: Foreign key linking to the Budget model (optional).
3. Budget Model
Stores budget information linked to accounts:

budget_id: Unique identifier for the budget.
account_id: Foreign key linking to the Account model.
name: Name of the budget (e.g., "Emergency Fund").
amount: The budgeted amount.
category: Category of the budget (e.g., "Savings", "Food").
Getting Started
Step 1: Set Up Database
Clone or download the repository.
Install the required Python libraries:
bash
Copy code
pip install -r requirements.txt
Run Alembic migrations to set up the database schema:
bash
Copy code
alembic upgrade head
Step 2: Create Tables
If the tables aren't automatically created with migrations, you can manually create them by calling the create_tables() function in the db.py file:

python
Copy code
from db import create_tables
create_tables()
Step 3: Add Data
You can add accounts, transactions, and budgets by running the add_data.py script:

bash
Copy code
python add_data.py
This will:

Add a new account.
Add a budget for that account.
Add a transaction linked to the account and the budget.
Step 4: Run Unit Tests
The project also includes unit tests to ensure that the data integrity is maintained. You can run the tests using the following command:

bash
Copy code
python -m unittest discover
This will run the tests in the project and verify the functionality of the system.

                
Contributing
Feel free to fork the repository and submit pull requests. Contributions are welcome to improve the system's functionality, bug fixes, or enhancements.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

LINKS
here is my slide link:https://powerpoint.cloud.microsoft/open/onedrive/?docId=CC11DE6B9

